event manager: doc: Add doc for EM profiler (#5987)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/others/profiler.rst

* :file:`real_time_plot.py` - This script connects to the device using RTT, plots data in real-time, and saves the data.
  When running the script from the command line, provide the dataset name.
  For example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     python3 real_time_plot.py test1

* :file:`merge_data.py` - This script combines data from ``test_p`` and ``test_c`` datasets into one dataset ``test_merged``.
  It also provides clock drift compensation based on the synchronization events: ``sync_event_p`` and ``sync_event_c``.
  This enables you to observe times between events for the two connected devices.
  As command-line arguments, provide names of events used for synchronization for a Peripheral (``sync_event_p``) and a Central (``sync_event_c``), as well as names of datasets for the Peripheral (``test_p``), the Central (``test_c``), and the merge result (``test_merged``).
  For example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     python3 merge_data.py test_p sync_event_p test_c sync_event_c test_merged

Running the backend
===================

To enable and run the custom backend, complete the following steps:

> 1. Connect device to the computer. For more information how to configure device see :ref:`profiler_configuration`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Connect device to the computer.
2. Complete the configuration steps for use with either custom events or Event Manager, as described in the :ref:`profiler_configuration` section.
```
What do you mean exactly here? Because with how the second sentence looks like now, it literally suggests to check Configuration about how to connect the device.

Also, one line, one sentence is our rule.

> #. Choose the Python script for event visualization, analysis, and calculating statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. From the list of `Available scripts`_, choose the Python script that you want to use for event visualization, analysis, and calculating statistics.
```

See the :ref:`profiler_sample` sample for an example of how to use the Profiler.

.. _profiler_configuration:

Configuration
*************

To use the Profiler for custom events, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_PROFILER` Kconfig option.
This option adds the Profiler source code to the application.

Call :c:func:`profiler_init` during the application start to initialize the Profiler.

> Configuration for use with Event Manager

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should mention this only in Event Manager Profiler documentation? To separate information about the integration from generic information about the profiler

Reviewer 2: In profiler doc we could leave only link to Event Manager Profiler documentation (just to inform that Event Manager profiler exists and it can be used to profiler Event Manager).

Author: Ok, now I think it is better idea then what I have done.

Reviewer: This was reworked. Please check after I commit shortly.

See the :ref:`profiler_sample` sample for an example of how to use the Profiler.

.. _profiler_configuration:

Configuration
*************

> The Profiler can be configured to profile either custom events or Event Manager events.

Reviewer 2: Profiler can profile both too (after it was upgraded by Aleksander Strzeboński)

Reviewer 2: I would not distinguish these as 2 alternatives, since Event Manager events are converted to profiler events.

#. Wrap the calls in one function that you then call to profile event occurrences.
   The following code example shows a function for profiling an event with data:

   .. code-block:: c

      static void profile_data_event(uint32_t val1, int32_t val2, int16_t val3,
                  uint8_t val4, const char *string)
      {
        struct log_event_buf buf;

        profiler_log_start(&buf);
        /* Profiling data connected with an event */
        profiler_log_encode_uint32(&buf, val1);
        profiler_log_encode_int32(&buf, val2);
        profiler_log_encode_int16(&buf, val3);
        profiler_log_encode_uint8(&buf, val4);
        profiler_log_encode_string(&buf, string);
        profiler_log_send(&buf, data_event_id);
      }

   .. note::

	    The ``data_event_id`` and the data that is profiled with the event must be consistent with the registered event type.
	    The data for every data field must be provided in the correct order.

Configuration for use with Event Manager
========================================

If you are using the Event Manager, complete the following steps to use the Profiler:

> 1. Enable the Profiler by selecting the :kconfig:`CONFIG_EVENT_MANAGER_PROFILER` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could simplify this a bit and only inform that Event Manager profiler tracer is a module that profiles Event Manager events in profiler (by sending profiler events).

Reviewer 2: Discussed offline.

Reviewer: Can I know what was discussed offline? :)

   With this Kconfig option set, the Profiler is automatically initialized when you initialize the :ref:`event_manager`.
#. Declare events for profiling purposes.
   Read :ref:`event_manager_implementing_events` on the Event Manager documentation page to learn how to do this.
#. Profile Event Manager events by following the steps in :ref:`event_manager_profiler_tracer_em_implementation` on the :ref:`event_manager_profiler_tracer` documentation page.

.. _profiler_backends:

> Enabling supported backend

Reviewer 2: This relates to profiler scripts and I would separate this paragraph from information about profiler subsystem on the device.

**************************

The Profiler supports a custom backend that is based around Python scripts to visualize the output data.
The backend communicates with the host using RTT.

To save profiling data, the scripts use CSV files for event occurrences and JSON files for event descriptions.

> The backend is available for both custom and Event Manager events.

Reviewer 2: The device provides information about tracking Event Manager events using profiler events.

Author: I think that this sentence here is not necessary, I will remove it. The sentence you are proposing is already explained earlier.

* :file:`real_time_plot.py` - This script connects to the device using RTT, plots data in real-time, and saves the data.
  When running the script from the command line, provide the dataset name.
  For example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     python3 real_time_plot.py test1

* :file:`merge_data.py` - This script combines data from ``test_p`` and ``test_c`` datasets into one dataset ``test_merged``.
  It also provides clock drift compensation based on the synchronization events: ``sync_event_p`` and ``sync_event_c``.
  This enables you to observe times between events for the two connected devices.
  As command-line arguments, provide names of events used for synchronization for a Peripheral (``sync_event_p``) and a Central (``sync_event_c``), as well as names of datasets for the Peripheral (``test_p``), the Central (``test_c``), and the merge result (``test_merged``).
  For example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     python3 merge_data.py test_p sync_event_p test_c sync_event_c test_merged

Running the backend
===================

To enable and run the custom backend, complete the following steps:

> 1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_PROFILER_NORDIC` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: I would prefer not to inform about Kconfig options in section about scripts (we mix information about scripts and firmware and that could be misleading I think).

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could add an explicit information that the Python scripts are communication with profiler subsystem running on the device to get data from the device in runtime?

See the :ref:`profiler_sample` sample for an example of how to use the Profiler.

.. _profiler_configuration:

Configuration
*************

> To use the Profiler for custom events, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_PROFILER` Kconfig option.

Author: If we describe how to configure profiler in next steps, this is redundant.

Author: Or it should be moved to Configuring profiling for custom events part

Reviewer: Reworked, thanks.

      * :c:func:`profiler_log_encode_int8` - Add 8-bit integer connected with the event.
      * :c:func:`profiler_log_encode_string` - Add string connected with the event.

#. Wrap the calls in one function that you then call to profile event occurrences.
   The following code example shows a function for profiling an event with data:

   .. code-block:: c

      static void profile_data_event(uint32_t val1, int32_t val2, int16_t val3,
                  uint8_t val4, const char *string)
      {
        struct log_event_buf buf;

        profiler_log_start(&buf);
        /* Profiling data connected with an event */
        profiler_log_encode_uint32(&buf, val1);
        profiler_log_encode_int32(&buf, val2);
        profiler_log_encode_int16(&buf, val3);
        profiler_log_encode_uint8(&buf, val4);
        profiler_log_encode_string(&buf, string);
        profiler_log_send(&buf, data_event_id);
      }

   .. note::

	    The ``data_event_id`` and the data that is profiled with the event must be consistent with the registered event type.
	    The data for every data field must be provided in the correct order.

> Configuring profiling for Event Manager events

Author: Isn't better to join this part with "Configuration for use with Event Manager" - it would be more clear for a user.

Reviewer: Reworked, thanks.

  For example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     python3 merge_data.py test_p sync_event_p test_c sync_event_c test_merged

Running the backend
===================

To enable and run the custom backend, complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_PROFILER_NORDIC` Kconfig option.
#. Choose the Python script for event visualization, analysis, and calculating statistics.
#. Run the script from the command line using its related command.

.. _profiler_backends_custom_visualization:

Backend visualization
=====================

When you run either the :file:`plot_from_files.py` or the :file:`real_time_plot.py` script, the profiled events are visualized in a GUI window.

The visual output can look like the following diagram:

.. profiler_GUI_start

.. figure:: ../../images/event_manager_profiling_sample.png
   :scale: 50 %
   :alt: Example of profiler backend script visualization

   Example of profiler backend script visualization

.. profiler_GUI_end

In this diagram:

* Red dots indicate the submissions for the related events.

> * Blue vertical rectangles indicate the processing of the events, with their height corresponding to the processing time length.

Author: height -> width
